# Algorithm Design and Analysis 

## Assignment Four 

Due Tuesday 16 December 2022 

A currency exchange graph is a graph whose n nodes represent different cur riencies, and whose directed edges represent exchange rates ruv between those currencies (for example re$ ≈ 1.78 for exchanging Euro to New Zealand dol lars). For convenience the edges can be weighted using wuv = log 1 ruv  (for example we$ ≈ −0.58), allowing the weight of adjacent edges to be added together to f ind combined exchange rates, and shorter paths result in higher exchange rates. The purpose of this assignment is to develop useful graph tools for currency trading. The assignment should include the following components, each with some suitable test examples: Best Conversion Finder which accepts an n × n connectivity table of ex change rates (where 0 denotes no direct exchange rate between two curren cies), and can calculate the best conversion rate between any two specified currencies (both ways), and how that rate can be obtained both ways as sequences of exchanges. (10 marks) Arbitrage Finder which accepts an n × n table of exchange rates and eff icently finds whether there is arbitrage in the system, a closed loop of exchanges that results in a profit. If so then all the occurrences of arbi trage, currencies v0,v1,v2,...,vk−1 for which rv0v1  ·rv1v2  ·...·rvk−1v0  > 1 should be found (allowing a currency trader to exploit a price differential to make a profit). (20 marks) Bridge Exchange Finder which accepts an n×n table of exchange rates and forms an undirected (and unweighted) graph which has edges between currencies if those two currencies can be directly exchanged. It then finds any exchanges (called bridge edges in the graph) which if were unavailable (its edge removed from graph) would mean some currencies could no longer be traded with each other via a sequence of exchanges (the graph would be disconnected). The bridges can be found by first performing a depth first search of the undirected graph, labelling each vertex u with a counter d(u) as the vertex is discovered, and with a value m(u) as the search is finished with the